tutorial/00-rubymotion-primer.md, before:

# Getting Your Mac Set Up for Mobile Development #

Realize that the steps above are required whether you use RubyMotion
or not. If you want to do development on iOS and Android, this is the
tax you pay.

- You need a Mac.
- You need to be on the El Cap OS.
- You need to XCode (you can get it from the AppStore).
- You need to then open XCode and accept the license.
- You need to Java preferablly [Java JDK 8](http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/javase/downloads/jdk8-downloads-2133151.html).
- Install [Virtual Box](https://www.virtualbox.org/wiki/Downloads).
- Install [Genymotion](https://www.genymotion.com/thank-you-freemium/) for fast Android Emulation.

# Installing RubyMotion #

- You need Ruby installed, preferablly version `2.3.1p112` or
  later. I'd recommend using [`rbenv`](https://github.com/rbenv/rbenv) for managing Ruby versions.
- Go to the RubyMotion website and [download the
  free version](http://www.rubymotion.com/download/starter/). You
  will need to provide an email address to get a license key.
- Add the following lines to `~/.profile` (or configuration file of your choice):
```bash
export RUBYMOTION_ANDROID_SDK="/Users/YOURUSERNAME/.rubymotion-android/sdk"
export RUBYMOTION_ANDROID_NDK="/Users/YOURUSERNAME/.rubymotion-android/ndk"
```
- In a terminal, run `motion android-setup` and follow the prompts
  (iOS is supported by default via XCode).
- After following the prompts, the Android SDK Manager will pop up. At
  the bottom right is a button to install selected packages (if you
  want to install any additional SDK's). Click the install button,
  accept the licenses, and install (if you weren't using RubyMotion
  you'd still have to do this stuff, and it wouldn't be automated like
  it is with `motion android-setup`).
- Open Genymotion, go to Settings->ADB and point the sdk path to
  `/Users/YOURUSERNAME/.rubymotion-android/sdk`.

# Ruby/ObjectiveC/Java Primer #

Answers on StackOverflow for iOS and Android issues are in their
respective languages (ObjectiveC, Java). There's no denying that. This
section goes into how you can translate ObjectiveC and Java to
Ruby. It's surprisingly simple, even if you've never written a line of
ObjectiveC or Java. Even if you're gun shy about using Ruby, you'll
still get a great overview of how to read ObjectiveC and Java code
contextualized through Ruby lenses. So let's get started.

## ObjectiveC to Ruby ##

Here is how a `Person` class would be created in ObjectiveC. There are
two properties `firstName` and `lastName`, and an instance method
called `sayHello` that returns a string. Instance methods in
ObjectiveC are denoted by the `-` sign preceeding the function name:

### Class Construction ###

```objectivec
//Person.h
@interface Person : NSObject
@property NSString *firstName;
@property NSString *lastName;
- (NSString*)sayHello;
@end

//Person.m
#import "Person.h"
@implementation Person
- (NSString*)sayHello {
  return [NSString stringWithFormat:@"Hello, %@ %@.",
                                    _firstName,
                                    _lastName];
}
@end
```

Here is how you would instanciate an instance of `Person` and call the
`sayHello` function.

```objectivec
Person *person = [[Person alloc] init];
person.firstName = @"Amir";
person.lastName = @"Rajan";
NSLog([person sayHello]);
```

Let's break this down:

Method invocation in ObjectiveC is done through
paired brackets `[]`. So instead of `person.sayHello()` you have
`[person sayHello]`. All ObjectiveC classes have an `alloc` class
method, and an `init` instance method. The `alloc` class method
creates a memory space for the instance of the class, and the `init`
method initializes it (essentially a constructor).

Properties are accessed using the `.` operator (as opposed to the `[]`).

String literals must be preceded by an `@` sign. This is required for
backwards compatability with C (all C code is valid ObjectiveC
code... ObjectiveC is a superset of C).

`NSLog` is essentially `puts`. It's a global C method so is available anywhere.

Here is the same `Person` class and usage, but in Ruby.

```ruby
class Person
  attr_accessor :firstName, :lastName

  def sayHello
    "Hello, #{@firstName} #{@lastName}"
  end
end
```

The usage should be pretty straight forward. It's important to
interalize the _mechancial_ aspect of converting ObjectiveC to
Ruby. Basically, you remove the `[]` and replace it with `.`. We'll
have more examples later.

```ruby
person = Person.alloc.init
person.firstName = "Amir"
person.lastName = "Rajan"
NSLog(person.sayHello)
```

Also, in Ruby, you _can_ use `Person.alloc.init`, but `Person.new` is
also available to you and does the same thing.

### Method Anatomy ###

Generally speaking, all APIs in iOS use named parameters (and by
extension, most iOS developers follow suit with their own
classes). Here is an example how you would declare a method in ObjectiveC.

```objectivec
- (void)setDobWithMonth:(NSInteger)month
                withDay:(NSInteger)day
               withYear:(NSInteger)year {

}
```

This was really weird the first time I saw it too. So let's break down
the code above. First, the `-` sign preceeding the method name denotes
that this is an instance method (a `+` sign denotes that it's a class
method... more on that later). The next token `(void)` denotes the
return type.

Now for the fun part. The method name _includes_ the name of the first
parameter (usually the method name is seperated from the parameter
name using the word `With` as a delimeter). The `setDobWithMonth`,
`withDay`, `withYear` are the _public_ names or the parameters. This
is what users of the method will see when autocompletion pops up.

The tokens `month`, `day`, `year` are what the public names are bound
to _within_ the method body. This is crazy/weird I know. Take a moment
to internalize this. In short, a method's name includes its named
parameters, and each parameter has a outward facing name and an
internal binding.

Here is how you would call the method.

```objectivec
[person setDobWithMonth:1 withDay:1 withYear:2013];
```

If you were to tell a teammate to call this method you would say.

>Call the `setDobWithMonth:withDay:withYear` method.

Now that you understand the anatomy of a ObjectiveC function. Here is
how you would do exact same thing in Ruby.

```ruby
def setDobWithMonth(month,
  withDay: day,
  withYear: year)

end
```

And here is the invocation:

```
person.setDobWithMonth(1, withDay: 1, withYear: 2013)
```

Now, of course, you can nix the public names of the methods if you
wish, and simply have:


```ruby
def setDobWithMonth(month, day, year)

end

person.setDobWithMonth(1, 1, 2013)
```

But it's important to know how to call methods with named parameters,
because all iOS APIs are built that way.

### Blocks ###

There is a reason why
[Fucking Block Syntax](http://fuckingblocksyntax.com/) exists. It's
because it's terrifying. Let's break down the next piece of code,
which does an `POST (HTTP)`, passing a dictionary, to a url, and
providing a callback on success.

```objectivec
- (void)
   post:(NSDictionary *)objectToPost
  toUrl:(NSString *)toUrl
success:(void (^)(RKMappingResult *mappingResult))success { }
```

Building upon what we learned in the previous section. The name of
this method is `post:toUrl:success` (a more idiomatic name would
probably be `postWithObject:withUrl:success`... but I digress).

The block is denoted by the `^` token. The full type signature for the
block is `void (^)(RKMappingResult) (╯°□°)╯︵ ┻━┻`.

Here is how you would invoke the `post:toUrl:success` method:

```objectivec
[client post: @{ @"firstName": @"Amir", @"lastName": @"Rajan" }
       toUrl: @"http://localhost/people"
     success:^(RKMappingResult *result) {
       //callback code here
     }];
```

Again, method invocation is denoted by using `[]`. For backward
compatability with C, dictionary literals must be prefixed with the
`@`, and of course, strings must also be prefixed with the `@` sign. I
call it the bloody stump character, because after you've typed a good
100 times, your fingers will end up being bloody stumps.

The callback `success` is denoted with the `^`, plus the typed
parameters, plus the callback method body. Here's how you would write
and invoke the same thing in Ruby:

```ruby
def post(objectToPost, toUrl: toUrl, success: success)

end

client post({ firstName: "Amir", lastName: "Rajan" },
  toUrl: "http://localhost/people",
  success: lambda { |result|
    #callback code here
  })
```

With what you've read so far, you should be able to translate the
ObjectiveC code to Ruby. This was taken from an actual StackOverflow answer:

```objectivec
_label.layer.backgroundColor = [UIColor whiteColor].CGColor;

[UIView animateWithDuration:2.0 animations:^{
  _label.layer.backgroundColor = [UIColor greenColor].CGColor;
} completion:NULL];
```

Don't look, below until you think you've got the translation figured out.

```ruby
@label.layer.backgroundColor = UIColor.whiteColor.CGColor

UIView.animateWithDuration(2.0, animations: lambda {
  @label.layer.backgroundColor = UIColor.greenColor.CGColor
}, completion: nil)
```

Congratulations! You can now read and translate ObjectiveC to Ruby.

### Categories vs Mixins ###

To extend a sealed/third party classes, ObjectiveC has the concept of
a `Category`. Let's say we want to take the animation logic from the
StackOverflow question above, and make it a part of `UIView` (a class
within iOS's `UIKit` library). Here is how you would do it in
ObjectiveC.

First we define the preprocessor directive (method with named
parameters, blocks, and bloody stump characters):

```objectivec
@interface UIView (UIViewExtensions)
- (void)animate:(double)duration block:(void (^)(void))block;
- (void)animate:(void (^)(void))block;
@end
```

ObjectiveC has method overloading, so we provide two implementations
of the function, one that takes in a duration and another that has a
default value.

```objectivec
@implementation UIView (UIViewExtensions)
- (void)animate:(void (^)(void))block {
  [self animate:0.5 block:block];
}

- (void)animate:(double)duration block:(void (^)(void))block {
  [UIView beginAnimations:NULL context:NULL];
  [UIView setAnimationDuration:duration];
  block();
  [UIView commitAnimations];
}
@end
```

This is the usage:

```objectivec
[label setAlpha:0];
[label animate:1 block:^{ [label setAlpha:1]; }];
```

In Ruby, we simply open the class/use a mixin. For berevity, I've just
opened the class \#yolo.

```ruby
class UIView
  def animate duration = 0.5, &block
    UIView.beginAnimations(nil, context:nil)
    UIView.setAnimationDuration(duration)
    instance_eval &block
    UIView.commitAnimations
  end
end

  def animate duration = 0.5, &block
    UIView.beginAnimations(nil, context:nil)
    UIView.setAnimationDuration(duration)
    instance_eval &block
    UIView.commitAnimations
  end
end
```

Look at that, RubyMotion "Just Works (TM)". Here is how you would
invoke that function.

```ruby
label.setAlpha 0
label.animate 1 { label.setAlpha 1 }
```

### Class Macros ###

Ruby class macros are great, and significantly increase
readability. Here is a class from my game A Dark Room, which describes
an encounter with an enemy.

```ruby
class SnarlingBeastEvent < EncounterEvent
  title "a snarling beast"
  text "a snarling beast leaps out of the underbrush."
  damage 1

  def loot
    {
      fur: { min: 3, max: 7, chance: 1.0 }
    }
  end
end
```

Here is the definition of the class macro.

```ruby
class EncounterEvent
  def self.title title
    define_method("title") { title }
  end

  def self.text text
    define_method("text") { text }
  end

  def self.health health
    define_method("health") { health }
  end
end
```

Given that ObjectiveC:

- Doesn't have class macros.
- Makes you use the bloody stump character.
- Doesn't have the concept of a symbol.
- Forces you to explicitly box and unbox value types from
  dictionaries.

You get a death by 1000 paper cuts. Here is the ObjectiveC code that
accomplishes the same thing as the Ruby code with class macros.

```objectivec
@interface SnarlingBeastEvent : EncounterEvent
+ (id)initNew;
- (NSDictionary *)loot;
@end

@implementation SnarlingBeastEvent
+ (id)initNew {
  return [super initWithAttributes: @{
    @"health": [[NSNumber alloc]initWithInt: 1],
    @"title": @"a snarling beast",
    @"text": @"a snarling beast leaps out of the underbrush."
  }];
}

- (NSDictionary *)loot {
  return @{
    @"fur": @{
      @"min": [[NSNumber alloc]initWithDouble:3.0],
      @"max": [[NSNumber alloc]initWithDouble:7.0],
      @"chance": [[NSNumber alloc]initWithDouble:1.7]
    }
  };
}
@end

@interface EncounterEvent : NSObject
@property NSString *title;
@property NSString *text;
@property NSInteger health;
+ (id)initWithAttributes:(NSDictionary *)attributes;
@end

@implementation EncounterEvent
+ (id)initWithAttributes:(NSDictionary *)attributes {
  EncounterEvent *e = [[EncounterEvent alloc] init];
  e.title = [attributes valueForKey:@"title"];
  e.text = [attributes valueForKey:@"text"];
  NSNumber *num = [attributes valueForKey:@"health"];
  e.health = [num integerValue];
  return e;
}
@end
```

## Java to Ruby ##

Here is how a `Person` class would be created in Java. There are
two public members `firstName` and `lastName`, and an instance function
called `sayHello` that returns a string.

### Class Construction ###

```java
public class Person {
  public string firstName;
  public string lastName;

  public string sayHello() {
    return "Hello, " + firstName + " " + lastName;
  }
}

Person person = new Person();
person.firstName = "Amir";
person.lastName = "Rajan";
System.out.println(person.sayHello())
```

```ruby
class Person
  attr_accessor :firstName, :lastName

  def sayHello
    "Hello, #{@firstName} #{@lastName}"
  end
end

person = Person.alloc.init
person.firstName = "Amir"
person.lastName = "Rajan"
puts person.sayHello
```

### Import Statements ###

### Method Anatomy ###

```java
Color color = Android.Graphics.Color.argb(255, 0, 96.0, 255.0)
```

```ruby
color = Android::Graphics::Color.argb(255, 0, 96.0, 255.0)
```

### Dictionaries ###

```java
Map<String,String> test = new HashMap<String, String>();
test.put("test","test");
test.put("test1","test2");
```

### Anonymous Classes ###

```java
Map<String,String> test = new HashMap<String, String>(){{
  put("test","test"); put("test","test");
}};
```

### Blocks ###

```java
public interface OnTaskCompleted{
    void onTaskCompleted(JSONObject result);
}

public class Callback implements OnTaskCompleted{
    @Override
    public void onTaskCompleted(JSONObject result) {
        // do something with result here!
    }
}

Callback callback = new Callback() {
    public boolean handleMessage(Message msg) {
        <code to be executed during callback>
    }
};
```

### Sorted ###

```java
Arrays.sort(scoreboard, new Comparator<String[]>() {
     @Override
     public int compare(String[] entry1, String[] entry2) {
        Integer time1 = Integer.valueOf(entry1[1]);
        Integer time2 = Integer.valueOf(entry2[1]);
        return time1.compareTo(time2);
        }
     });
Also you can make simple value object class for easier manipulations. Like...

class Player
{
  public String name;
  public int score;
}
And after that you can make

 Player[] scoreboard = ...
 Arrays.sort(scoreboard, new Comparator<Player>() {
          @Override
          public int compare(Player player1, Player player2) {
              if(player1.score > player2.score) return 1;
              else if(player1.score < player2.score) return -1;
              else return 0;
             }
 });
```

Commit message:

more explantion of objectivec vs ruby

tutorial/00-rubymotion-primer.md, after:

# Getting Your Mac Set Up for Mobile Development #

Realize that the steps above are required whether you use RubyMotion
or not. If you want to do development on iOS and Android, this is the
tax you pay.

- You need a Mac.
- You need to be on the El Cap OS.
- You need to XCode (you can get it from the AppStore).
- You need to then open XCode and accept the license.
- You need to Java preferablly [Java JDK 8](http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/javase/downloads/jdk8-downloads-2133151.html).
- Install [Virtual Box](https://www.virtualbox.org/wiki/Downloads).
- Install [Genymotion](https://www.genymotion.com/thank-you-freemium/) for fast Android Emulation.

# Installing RubyMotion #

- You need Ruby installed, preferablly version `2.3.1p112` or
  later. I'd recommend using [`rbenv`](https://github.com/rbenv/rbenv) for managing Ruby versions.
- Go to the RubyMotion website and [download the
  free version](http://www.rubymotion.com/download/starter/). You
  will need to provide an email address to get a license key.
- Add the following lines to `~/.profile` (or configuration file of your choice):
```bash
export RUBYMOTION_ANDROID_SDK="/Users/YOURUSERNAME/.rubymotion-android/sdk"
export RUBYMOTION_ANDROID_NDK="/Users/YOURUSERNAME/.rubymotion-android/ndk"
```
- In a terminal, run `motion android-setup --api_version=20` and follow the prompts
  (iOS is supported by default via XCode).
- When the Android SDK Manager application pops up. Click the `Install
  X Packages ...` button and accept all the licenses. After all the
  downloads complete, close the window.
- Open Genymotion, go to Settings->ADB and point the SDK path to
  `/Users/YOURUSERNAME/.rubymotion-android/sdk`.

# Ruby/ObjectiveC/Java Primer #

Answers on StackOverflow for iOS and Android issues are in their
respective languages (ObjectiveC, Java). There's no denying that. This
section goes into how you can translate ObjectiveC and Java to
Ruby. It's surprisingly simple, even if you've never written a line of
ObjectiveC or Java. Even if you're gun shy about using Ruby, you'll
still get a great overview of how to read ObjectiveC and Java code
contextualized through Ruby lenses. So let's get started.

## ObjectiveC to Ruby ##

Here is how a `Person` class would be created in ObjectiveC. There are
two properties `firstName` and `lastName`, and an instance method
called `sayHello` that returns a string. Instance methods in
ObjectiveC are denoted by the `-` sign preceeding the function name:

### Class Construction ###

```objectivec
//Person.h
@interface Person : NSObject
@property NSString *firstName;
@property NSString *lastName;
- (NSString*)sayHello;
@end

//Person.m
#import "Person.h"
@implementation Person
- (NSString*)sayHello {
  return [NSString stringWithFormat:@"Hello, %@ %@.",
                                    _firstName,
                                    _lastName];
}
@end
```

Here is how you would instanciate an instance of `Person` and call the
`sayHello` function.

```objectivec
Person *person = [[Person alloc] init];
person.firstName = @"Amir";
person.lastName = @"Rajan";
NSLog([person sayHello]);
```

Let's break this down:

Method invocation in ObjectiveC is done through
paired brackets `[]`. So instead of `person.sayHello()` you have
`[person sayHello]`. All ObjectiveC classes have an `alloc` class
method, and an `init` instance method. The `alloc` class method
creates a memory space for the instance of the class, and the `init`
method initializes it (essentially a constructor).

Properties are accessed using the `.` operator (as opposed to the `[]`).

String literals must be preceded by an `@` sign. This is required for
backwards compatability with C (all C code is valid ObjectiveC
code... ObjectiveC is a superset of C).

`NSLog` is essentially `puts`. It's a global C method so is available anywhere.

Here is the same `Person` class and usage, but in Ruby.

```ruby
class Person
  attr_accessor :firstName, :lastName

  def sayHello
    "Hello, #{@firstName} #{@lastName}"
  end
end
```

The usage should be pretty straight forward. It's important to
interalize the _mechancial_ aspect of converting ObjectiveC to
Ruby. Basically, you remove the `[]` and replace it with `.`. We'll
have more examples later.

```ruby
person = Person.alloc.init
person.firstName = "Amir"
person.lastName = "Rajan"
NSLog(person.sayHello)
```

Also, in Ruby, you _can_ use `Person.alloc.init`, but `Person.new` is
also available to you and does the same thing.

### Method Anatomy ###

Generally speaking, all APIs in iOS use named parameters (and by
extension, most iOS developers follow suit with their own
classes). Here is an example how you would declare a method in ObjectiveC.

```objectivec
- (void)setDobWithMonth:(NSInteger)month
                withDay:(NSInteger)day
               withYear:(NSInteger)year {

}
```

This was really weird the first time I saw it too. So let's break down
the code above. First, the `-` sign preceeding the method name denotes
that this is an instance method (a `+` sign denotes that it's a class
method... more on that later). The next token `(void)` denotes the
return type.

Now for the fun part. The method name _includes_ the name of the first
parameter (usually the method name is seperated from the parameter
name using the word `With` as a delimeter). The `setDobWithMonth`,
`withDay`, `withYear` are the _public_ names or the parameters. This
is what users of the method will see when autocompletion pops up.

The tokens `month`, `day`, `year` are what the public names are bound
to _within_ the method body. This is crazy/weird I know. Take a moment
to internalize this. In short, a method's name includes its named
parameters, and each parameter has a outward facing name and an
internal binding.

Here is how you would call the method.

```objectivec
[person setDobWithMonth:1 withDay:1 withYear:2013];
```

If you were to tell a teammate to call this method you would say.

>Call the `setDobWithMonth:withDay:withYear` method.

Now that you understand the anatomy of a ObjectiveC function. Here is
how you would do exact same thing in Ruby.

```ruby
def setDobWithMonth(month,
  withDay: day,
  withYear: year)

end
```

And here is the invocation:

```
person.setDobWithMonth(1, withDay: 1, withYear: 2013)
```

Now, of course, you can nix the public names of the methods if you
wish, and simply have:


```ruby
def setDobWithMonth(month, day, year)

end

person.setDobWithMonth(1, 1, 2013)
```

But it's important to know how to call methods with named parameters,
because all iOS APIs are built that way.

### Blocks ###

There is a reason why
[Fucking Block Syntax](http://fuckingblocksyntax.com/) exists. It's
because it's terrifying. Let's break down the next piece of code,
which does an `POST (HTTP)`, passing a dictionary, to a url, and
providing a callback on success.

```objectivec
- (void)
   post:(NSDictionary *)objectToPost
  toUrl:(NSString *)toUrl
success:(void (^)(RKMappingResult *mappingResult))success { }
```

Building upon what we learned in the previous section. The name of
this method is `post:toUrl:success` (a more idiomatic name would
probably be `postWithObject:withUrl:success`... but I digress).

The block is denoted by the `^` token. The full type signature for the
block is `void (^)(RKMappingResult) (╯°□°)╯︵ ┻━┻`.

Here is how you would invoke the `post:toUrl:success` method:

```objectivec
[client post: @{ @"firstName": @"Amir", @"lastName": @"Rajan" }
       toUrl: @"http://localhost/people"
     success:^(RKMappingResult *result) {
       //callback code here
     }];
```

Again, method invocation is denoted by using `[]`. For backward
compatability with C, dictionary literals must be prefixed with the
`@`, and of course, strings must also be prefixed with the `@` sign. I
call it the bloody stump character, because after you've typed a good
100 times, your fingers will end up being bloody stumps.

The callback `success` is denoted with the `^`, plus the typed
parameters, plus the callback method body. Here's how you would write
and invoke the same thing in Ruby:

```ruby
def post(objectToPost, toUrl: toUrl, success: success)

end

client post({ firstName: "Amir", lastName: "Rajan" },
  toUrl: "http://localhost/people",
  success: lambda { |result|
    #callback code here
  })
```

With what you've read so far, you should be able to translate the
ObjectiveC code to Ruby. This was taken from an actual StackOverflow answer:

```objectivec
_label.layer.backgroundColor = [UIColor whiteColor].CGColor;

[UIView animateWithDuration:2.0 animations:^{
  _label.layer.backgroundColor = [UIColor greenColor].CGColor;
} completion:NULL];
```

Don't look, below until you think you've got the translation figured out.

```ruby
@label.layer.backgroundColor = UIColor.whiteColor.CGColor

UIView.animateWithDuration(2.0, animations: lambda {
  @label.layer.backgroundColor = UIColor.greenColor.CGColor
}, completion: nil)
```

### Categories vs Mixins ###

To extend a sealed/third party classes, ObjectiveC has the concept of
a `Category`. Let's say we want to take the animation logic from the
StackOverflow question above, and make it a part of `UIView` (a class
within iOS's `UIKit` library). Here is how you would do it in
ObjectiveC.

First we define the preprocessor directive (method with named
parameters, blocks, and bloody stump characters):

```objectivec
@interface UIView (UIViewExtensions)
- (void)animate:(double)duration block:(void (^)(void))block;
- (void)animate:(void (^)(void))block;
@end
```

ObjectiveC has method overloading, so we provide two implementations
of the function, one that takes in a duration and another that has a
default value.

```objectivec
@implementation UIView (UIViewExtensions)
- (void)animate:(void (^)(void))block {
  [self animate:0.5 block:block];
}

- (void)animate:(double)duration block:(void (^)(void))block {
  [UIView beginAnimations:NULL context:NULL];
  [UIView setAnimationDuration:duration];
  block();
  [UIView commitAnimations];
}
@end
```

This is the usage:

```objectivec
[label setAlpha:0];
[label animate:1 block:^{ [label setAlpha:1]; }];
```

In Ruby, we simply open the class/use a mixin. For berevity, I've just
opened the class \#yolo.

```ruby
class UIView
  def animate duration = 0.5, &block
    UIView.beginAnimations(nil, context:nil)
    UIView.setAnimationDuration(duration)
    instance_eval &block
    UIView.commitAnimations
  end
end

  def animate duration = 0.5, &block
    UIView.beginAnimations(nil, context:nil)
    UIView.setAnimationDuration(duration)
    instance_eval &block
    UIView.commitAnimations
  end
end
```

Here is how you would invoke that function.

```ruby
label.setAlpha 0
label.animate 1 { label.setAlpha 1 }
```

### Benefit of Class Macros ###

Ruby class macros are great, and significantly increase
readability. Here is a class from my game A Dark Room, which describes
an encounter with an enemy.

```ruby
class SnarlingBeastEvent < EncounterEvent
  title "a snarling beast"
  text "a snarling beast leaps out of the underbrush."
  damage 1

  def loot
    {
      fur: { min: 3, max: 7, chance: 1.0 }
    }
  end
end
```

Here is the definition of the class macro.

```ruby
class EncounterEvent
  def self.title title
    define_method("title") { title }
  end

  def self.text text
    define_method("text") { text }
  end

  def self.health health
    define_method("health") { health }
  end
end
```

Given that ObjectiveC:

- Doesn't have class macros.
- Makes you use the bloody stump character.
- Doesn't have the concept of a symbol.
- Forces you to explicitly box and unbox value types from
  dictionaries.

You get a death by 1000 paper cuts. Here is the ObjectiveC code that
accomplishes the same thing as the Ruby code with class macros.

Define the preprocessor directive. One class method `initNew`, and one
instance method `loot`:

```objectivec
@interface SnarlingBeastEvent : EncounterEvent
+ (id)initNew;
- (NSDictionary *)loot;
@end
```

Call parent constructor with specific attributes. Override `loot`
method. The dictionary literal contstruction, and boxing/unboxing apis
are horrid:

```objectivec
@implementation SnarlingBeastEvent
+ (id)initNew {
  return [super initWithAttributes: @{
    @"health": [[NSNumber alloc]initWithInt: 1],
    @"title": @"a snarling beast",
    @"text": @"a snarling beast leaps out of the underbrush."
  }];
}

- (NSDictionary *)loot {
  return @{
    @"fur": @{
      @"min": [[NSNumber alloc]initWithDouble:3.0],
      @"max": [[NSNumber alloc]initWithDouble:7.0],
      @"chance": [[NSNumber alloc]initWithDouble:1.0]
    }
  };
}
@end
```
Base class implementation. Preprocessor directive, plus
implementation. The dictionary boxing/unboxing apis are horrid:

```objectivec
@interface EncounterEvent : NSObject
@property NSString *title;
@property NSString *text;
@property NSInteger health;
+ (id)initWithAttributes:(NSDictionary *)attributes;
@end

@implementation EncounterEvent
+ (id)initWithAttributes:(NSDictionary *)attributes {
  EncounterEvent *e = [[EncounterEvent alloc] init];
  e.title = [attributes valueForKey:@"title"];
  e.text = [attributes valueForKey:@"text"];
  NSNumber *num = [attributes valueForKey:@"health"];
  e.health = [num integerValue];
  return e;
}
@end
```

Congratulations! You can now read and translate ObjectiveC to Ruby.

## Java to Ruby ##

From a syntax standpoint, Java is pretty similar to Ruby (sans
types). Here is how a `Person` class would be created in Java. There
are two public members `firstName` and `lastName`, and an instance
function called `sayHello` that returns a string.

### Class Construction ###

```java
public class Person {
  public string firstName;
  public string lastName;

  public string sayHello() {
    return "Hello, " + firstName + " " + lastName;
  }
}

Person person = new Person();
person.firstName = "Amir";
person.lastName = "Rajan";
System.out.println(person.sayHello())
```

```ruby
class Person
  attr_accessor :firstName, :lastName

  def sayHello
    "Hello, #{@firstName} #{@lastName}"
  end
end

person = Person.alloc.init
person.firstName = "Amir"
person.lastName = "Rajan"
puts person.sayHello
```

### Import Statements ###

### Method Anatomy ###

```java
Color color = Android.Graphics.Color.argb(255, 0, 96.0, 255.0)
```

```ruby
color = Android::Graphics::Color.argb(255, 0, 96.0, 255.0)
```

### Dictionaries ###

```java
Map<String,String> test = new HashMap<String, String>();
test.put("test","test");
test.put("test1","test2");
```

### Anonymous Classes ###

```java
Map<String,String> test = new HashMap<String, String>(){{
  put("test","test"); put("test","test");
}};
```

### Blocks ###

```java
public interface OnTaskCompleted{
    void onTaskCompleted(JSONObject result);
}

public class Callback implements OnTaskCompleted{
    @Override
    public void onTaskCompleted(JSONObject result) {
        // do something with result here!
    }
}

Callback callback = new Callback() {
    public boolean handleMessage(Message msg) {
        <code to be executed during callback>
    }
};
```

### Sorted ###

```java
Arrays.sort(scoreboard, new Comparator<String[]>() {
     @Override
     public int compare(String[] entry1, String[] entry2) {
        Integer time1 = Integer.valueOf(entry1[1]);
        Integer time2 = Integer.valueOf(entry2[1]);
        return time1.compareTo(time2);
        }
     });
Also you can make simple value object class for easier manipulations. Like...

class Player
{
  public String name;
  public int score;
}
And after that you can make

 Player[] scoreboard = ...
 Arrays.sort(scoreboard, new Comparator<Player>() {
          @Override
          public int compare(Player player1, Player player2) {
              if(player1.score > player2.score) return 1;
              else if(player1.score < player2.score) return -1;
              else return 0;
             }
 });
```
